When you hear these divine words of God
“And we have not sent you but as a mercy to the worlds,”
you’ll know that Islam is the religion of humanity.
What is Humanity?
It is to love one another for one another,
to wish good upon mankind,
mercy to all people, bring them joy,
respect and appreciate them,
all this regardless of their
religion, colour, gender or class.
Humanity consists of four things:
Mercy, Goodness, Love, and Beauty.
Why are we saying this?
because there is a harsh kind of religious devotion
that condemns Humanity,
and there is a kind of religious devotion
that is based on bitterness and hate,
which claims to worship God
by hating non-Muslims,
as well as the hatred of non-religious Muslims
and even anyone who merely opposes their ideologies.
All of this is wrong,
because all of this defies the words of God
“And we have not sent you but as a mercy to the worlds.”
In simple terms, there are people
who suffer from fragility in their humanity
and they fall for using religiousness against religion.
Then what is the right approach?
what’s right is that you will love not God
until you love people,
because you will love not God absolutely
until you love his creation
The love of creation derives from the love of its creator
that’s right. The prophet peace be upon him says
“None of you is truly a believer until they love for their brother
what they love for themselves”
“their brother” here includes mankind, all of mankind
and not just Muslims only, that’s right.
So what should I do?
Fill your heart with love for people,
all of mankind, regardless of their
religion, colour, gender or class.
Make a decision today to start loving people.
Islam is the religion of humanity.